if you haven't seen Dune part two this
video is unfortunately not for you if
you have I did my best
enjoy I believe in
dreams I believe in their messages from
the
deep they are amorphous and interpreted
in thousands of languages all of which
are
significant I believe in arguing with
them I believe the world makes decisions
for us
I believe in
myself I don't know if I believe in
faith I know I sat back in my chair once
Uso reached the residency I know I
stopped breathing when Paul the betres
slid his grip down the blade of Fate
rotha I know I started smiling when he
merged it into the Heinen's chest I know
I started breathing when Paul stomped
his ascendency down at the feet of the
emperor I know I started
thinking thought about how he stomped
the same pitch he used to call the shy
halud I thought about how this was a
creative
choice I know there was no music playing
at this point I know the sound of water
can be heard crashing in the background
as the camera Waits on Paul's
face I know I
waited I thought about Christopher Nolan
I thought about how his intensity as a
director comes from how he spars with
ideas
conceptually I know he uses visuals to
emphasize the power behind his script
then I thought about
denille I thought about how his
intensity as a director in larg thanks
to cinematographer Greg Frasier comes
from how he spars with ideas through
imagery I believe in his control over
scale and scope both figurative and
contextual how they work to achieve the
ideal ver
similitude I know his choice of dialogue
is what we see when inframe and his
worlds are what we believe when out of
it I know what I feel with his imagery
what every frame says when it's more
than a thousand words attached to
them I know it was here in this room
where Dune became a warning to all the
genres out there to all the other houses
of directors and their
Studios I believe if you want to set the
standard for how to master the art form
this is how you do it I know never
before has science fiction found its
rightful Steward and now no other genre
can
compare I believe this to be the tragic
precedent of Dune part 2 A Story of
cinematic poetry and science fiction
history in one ambitious
take I believe I know what a masterpiece
looks like for your
consideration
there are about a million different ways
I could begin this essay and all of them
would feel artificial there are about a
million things within this film I could
list and trust me I will try but art is
a process or as Killian Murphy would put
it it's not the duty of art to give the
answers just to ask the questions it
would feel completely inappropriate to
undersell this cinematic experiences
anything other than exactly what it is
and that specifically is one of the
greatest films I have ever seen or
that's ever been de site part one the
mystery of life isn't a problem to solve
but a reality to experience a process
that cannot be understood by stopping it
we must move with the flow of the
process we must join it we must flow
with it so how does dune accomplish this
The Impossible how does dune fold love
and ego and prophecy and Messianic
pretention and tragedy all in on itself
until the themes are so tightly bound
until the words lead them to Paradise
tears the screen aunder under the iconic
score of Han Zimmer the only way I can
answer the questions that Dune asks as a
piece of art is by not reviewing part
two in the same way I review everything
else I refuse it is pointless for me to
attempt because I cannot commit to
manufacturing Nuance for the sake of it
nor conflating the scale of what I've
seen to do so would be a disservice to
cinema I have no quotas to reach nor a
desire for an algorithm friendly runtime
and simply put this is not a movie I
sought out for its historic themes I
sought it primarily because I a film fan
a cinema supporter and admirer of this
interpretation of Dune I wanted to see
if what we were promised was possible
could this level of scale and sight and
color and scope be achieved without
losing a narrative backbone could you
really Define this cautionary tale for a
modern age with everything it needed to
hit and hit hard but the themes wash
over me like waves of kaladan as I
walked out of the theater doors and
could part two sit at the table with
Cinema's greatest holding weight that is
much more engrossing on its
predecessor yes spoilers of course but
Dune part two is everything you have
ever heard it to be and know it's not
perfect but it is dangerous sleep
unimaginably
[Music]
close cinematography is the first
language of a film and the decision to
shoot part two almost exclusively on
oracus is precisely how VN and Frasier
achieve this never beeseen level of a
similitude not since the original Star
Wars or Lord of the Rings has a
fictional environment felt so
performative yet candidly realistic
where the camera embodies every Triumph
and Nuance of being present in the
moment it was a bit of a challenge to
take in this much ambition in one
sitting but it was worth every
additional rewatch because oracus exudes
a stunning physicality unrivaled by
anything else in modern media from vast
set pieces that reinforce scale to the
creeping sunsets that code the
characters the visuals of part two are
given a unified Vision we have never
seen artic C ated at this level a
seamless ever flowing becoming that
communicates the space between its
people and its story maybe the two
towers in the early 2000s or even
Lawrence of Arabia back in the day are
the more appropriate comparisons when it
comes to the composition of various
scales but even still what's been
achieved here is nothing short of a
technical Miracle regardless of the year
or technology by circumventing a
traditional 3A story structure and
doubling down on the visual evolution of
this Trilogy part two elabor Ates
harmonizes and then bursts at the scene
with artistic richness far beyond what
part one was capable of by just letting
moments exist as they are you fully
represent real art because real art
always appreciates the older it grows
part two lives in a color grade that is
as transportive as it is intoxicating
and it allows for depth with the visuals
on screen and the characters we follow
it is a gift that Greg frager was given
the opportunity to revisit this sandbox
once again and he absolutely finds more
complicated layers in this world as vnu
finds his own affording them both a few
years time to refine every shot and
every story beat has led to one of the
greatest pairings of brain and bronze a
literary translation could have this is
a film that is so intentionally immense
but it never neglects the presence of
its smaller sets and why their intimacy
Works part two breaks all the Notions of
what's possible with a camera by
translating the visual depth of the
story how the characters can stand at
distance with the world with each other
how the frame can collapse in on
subjects when a connection is being
formed how the landscape can change to
reflect the emotional arcs that are
given time to breathe how the sky might
open up when it's time to raise the
stakes is every scene with Paul and chy
walking through the Twilight always
necessary is every hold on the eyes of a
fman follower always required
technically no but this experience
wouldn't work without those directions
this wouldn't be doomed without those
shots that illuminate sensibilities this
wouldn't feel like an oasis of
Humanity's distant future without the
camera invading that privacy this wasn't
simply extra footage on the editing
table this is the lifeblood of an epic
the imagery in this film tells the plot
and the visual exercise is what follows
an ideal representative of what Cinema
can be at its purest where the audience
uses the ambiguity left over to fill in
the gaps every frame every Pace change
every chapter experiencing this becomes
an instinctual exercise in the
appreciation of Cinema rather than just
an intellectual one to stamp ourselves
into the experience as it happens not
because the dialogue isn't feeding us
what we want but because this is a movie
you read as much as you watch this is v
news Lawrence of Arabia in succumbing to
the totality of old-fashioned movie
making with how it combines
relationships politics religion cultural
fanaticism and ever shifting perspective
into just one hyperrealistic core that
is critical of its world and inhabitants
that is how you go beyond the camera to
inspire a video like this if a movie can
leave you feeling inspired somehow and
how you approach art or how you live
vicariously through it then you have to
celebrate it this is the kind of sci-fi
that feels lived in from its cultures to
its religions to its technology and
politics all married with brutal
intimacy through close-ups and stunning
wide shots this is how science fiction
was meant to be envisioned in
film
[Music]
Dune part two is a visually
groundbreaking meticulously detailed and
excruciatingly passionate interpretation
of its source material a film about
destruction and aestheticism all on the
same axis all portrayed through a
cinematic Goliath that captures the
feeling of reading the books and EMB
bodying the soul of Dune with precision
and personality it feels different to
know you're watching a genre a director
a cinematic experience achieve history
in real time it becomes a level of
self-awareness that's as rare for an
audience as it is sacred to be a part of
I mean I quite literally sat there in
the theater thinking okay this is
history happening Dune 2 is not just a
movie to watch but a vision to
experience in the same way Blade Runner
2049 nailed the dystopian and futuristic
Noir and the atmosphere that came with
it from its Landscapes to its fine
particulates Dune has now achieved a
religious and spiritual ver similitude
for science fiction that seemed
impossible to achieve in the current
science fiction Zeitgeist the most
important attributes of the genre come
from those expressions of our species it
is what drives the story of our history
and in the same breath the story of Dune
those connections will always transcend
time and space for as long as we are
humans we are full of Faith as long as
we have dreams We Are Spiritual it's
just nice to know that V sees this too
to capture that Essence is to walk a
line a balance of excitement and
horrific Roger Deans managed to
transform Los Angeles but Greg Frasier
became a racus it's impossible to talk
about the movie without talking about
the first thing you notice when coming
into the world and without mincing words
this is one of the greatest photographed
movies of all time choreographed by the
greatest scientific mind to ever sit in
the director's chair in many ways I was
overwhelmed with how much I connected
with the story in part two considering
that my general appreciation for doing
up until this point was much more
because of some of its parts the
totality the control VNV has over the
audience when connecting with Paul and
shaie with sgar and usil even with a
character's faith in their faith to then
reorienting us as mere observers of mass
Exposition that to me is a Mastery of
the technical understanding behind
highlevel filmmaking watching Paul and
Chie sandwalk together is one of the
most human and emotionally humbling
moments I've ever had with a film I
found myself imprinting so much of my
own life into their meanderings that
even a 6-second glide through the
Twilight caught me by surprise it's
these moments litter throughout part two
where I could feel myself being changed
as a viewer in real time and that speaks
largely to the accomplishment that is
this type of Cinema that I can walk away
completely different as a person than
when I entered without the intention of
doing so this movie moved me in ways I
didn't expect and the best part is that
it all plays into the benefit of the
story a Messiah who fulfills his
prophecy but not for the reasons he'd
want a love story as common as they come
but drawn more poetically than it ever
should have been in a crescendo of
rebellious spirit that is as hauntingly
beautiful as it is cautionary the fact
that this story can work with as much
purposeful ambiguity as it has and hit
harder every subsequent rewatch is a
testament to the prowess of its director
and his command over the visual language
I love stories about Revolution just on
their Concepts alone and this is one of
the best their has has ever been because
it excels at the execution of every
single idea this is what makes it feel
historic even in the
[Music]
moment speaking of becoming and rising
to meet the moment let's talk about Paul
and how Timothy shalam solidified
himself as the titular character in this
epic it is rare to see an actor embody a
character with such command that the
screen feels like it stops when they're
rising to meet the moment to be the face
of an odyssey like Dune and to be worthy
of that Crown by outright earning it to
embrace the big moments and Lead through
them surrounded by an ensemble cast that
Rivals any cinematic Trilogy that is
something I didn't think I'd see for a
long time as much as this world Embraces
the soul of the story Timothy Embraces
the spirit of this tragedy and he does
so as the title character in every
setting that asks Paul to hit that next
gear from falling for Chie and embracing
the culture of the freman to his slow
shift in tone with Jessica with all of
the rage building underneath to his
March down south to the war council and
all of it coming ahead in the throne
room Throwdown Paul is asked to convey
so much maturity and so many pivotal
moments that are not spared a single
emotion as it unfolds while part one was
enough of an introduction to his
character I felt like the anchor to his
experience was missing for me I was more
fascinated by the world than the
protagonist I wanted to know why Paul
works and not that he didn't have the
narrative shading to back his character
or that the stakes weren't dire enough
but as this reluctant Duke fighting
against manufactured fanaticisms false
prophecies and the like what was it
about his story that was different well
we finally get to see the full picture
here which is that Paul works because he
is so human one who loves and hates and
fears and acts not purely out of
preservation but protection and revenge
he is so flawed in such an impossible
situation that you can't help but hope
he finds a narrow way through you root
for the hope of Alternatives though you
know the sacrifices are coming
regardless we are not meant to be him
this is not for idolization or
transposition we are meant to recognize
him to see parts of ourselves from every
angle for better or worse it's a tether
that holds together his sunken costs and
needs for Revenge as well as his
commitment to honor and love the biggest
shock is just in how he plays the game
when it's time to play not that he's
playing it it's a story about
consequential loss and victory at the
expense of the present and it marries
these themes with cinematography that
brings out those emotions Paul is now
narratively antithetical to his father
in how he's conquered araus how he
protects his house even how he views
power as a means to an end the line
about winning the war by being a Harkin
in was not just for dramatic effect it
was the movie telling you exactly where
it's going and it's awesome we even get
an entire color palet switch once Paul
makes his decision to bring the emperor
down and start the holy war we jump from
warm oranges on a Serene Oasis and
Paul's saying I'm not here to lead to a
muted sunrise and Stark Grays that are
washed out as he points the way all
throughout the rest of the film until
The Final Duel the emphasis on the
visuals matching the Thematic right when
Paul becomes more hearkening is
brilliant that duplicity by vnu is the
art of film making the art of balance to
shift between being a fan of the
universe and a fan of Cinema on a dime
is be more impressive than a direct one
for one adaptation of this book to bring
Humanity through in the exploration of
Doubt through the spirituality of dreams
and align it all behind how every
character moves narratively it's
incredible vision control Deni is able
to adapt to the expectations of any
genre he works in it's what makes him so
good almost every critical moment with
Paul is executed to Perfection you have
the best a worm rde has ever looked
followed by a poignant lesson on the
acceptance of Legacy followed by
teachings with the Fran that then pave
his way through the South to the
greatest onscreen duel since Luke and
Vader in Return of the Jedi all of it is
perfect the use of Paul and ch's love
theme in the final scene is perverse for
all the right reasons it feels wrong and
yet it's so powerful because it is the
one score you know hits the hardest and
it devastates the final shot of the film
this movie knows what it's
[Music]
doing
in all honesty you don't have to love
Dune you barely even have to like it but
the experience I had with part two is as
fundamentally Soulful as you'll find in
cinema today and as important to our
Humanity as they come I didn't need part
two to be a story about the over dangers
of Messianic worship and the ethics
Around Blind Faith I just needed it to
tell the exact story that it's telling
and to do so with the passion it
displayed in every single frame before
this Trilogy kicked off I had barely
understood the Optics going into part
one I hadn't yet read the books and it
took time to learn the world as it was
and why this story seemed to matter to
so many people but holy if he
didn't walk out of part two changed in
some way or shape then are you really
watching are you really listening once
you view this film as a visual exercise
of Cinema it changes entirely how you
bring yourself into it how you watch it
how you resonate with it it this
culmination like Oppenheimer before it
like only a few films from the past few
years this is why I give myself to film
why we have built an audience of over
24,000 who I'm sure feel the same this
is why we want to be asked to be and
continuously demands to be challenged by
film because what we see is how we
connect and what we connect with is what
we feel isn't that the point let's put
it like this bnu has achieved the purest
distillation of film making that is
humanly possible and you know it because
that thought enters your head every 15
minutes when watching this film I think
that to be in the presence of a
Visionary in their Prime like with Nolan
is to welcome a connection with an art
form so important that it encourages us
to be vulnerable during the experience
because everything it takes from you it
gives back tfold B newv is a master at
reorienting the audience and how they
digest the visual language of his worlds
we are seeing hearing and feeling the
crescendo of a living genre as it was
meant to be seen heard and felt a
singular understanding of all of the
best practices in a 200-year-old genre
through a century old medium all of it
paying respect to the history it leans
on a painstaking level of detail and
thoughtful composition wearing the
history of sci-fi on its chest as a
badge of honor and doing so in
fundamentally epic fashion this is how
all films should be practiced in a world
where AI encroaches on every facet of
creativity where it threatens the
importance of real art and our
Visionaries Dune part two shows that no
program will ever be able to achieve
this level of grandeur or Humanity how
do you combat the onslaught of
lackluster television and streaming
demands you make
[Music]
this for my closing thoughts I thought
it would be rather appropriate do a
little lightning round where I give some
of my more immediate Praises of the
story that really worked for me please
do not mistake my passion as
pretentiousness I just love what this
film brought to my life and I hope you
did too the opening act of this movie is
one of the most striking introductions I
have ever seen for any film The Mastery
over atmosphere and soundscape draws you
into the suffocating hold and then the
lighting over araus just haunts this
screen slowly methodically it casts this
amazing Shadow over the stakes of the
story just as we jump in and as things
progress obviously I want to talk about
chny and Paul which might be my favorite
on-screen relationship since Peter and
gamorra simply because of how vnu uses
their emotions together CH is often
positioned as the depth between Paul and
the world she becomes his literal
distance and we see how far he's willing
to go by her unmoving position to the
femen the film rests on both of their
shoulders to lead the conflict both
internally and externally and it works
you believe that this kid can lead the
uprising and take on the houses for
araus to be free
it is a cautionary Coming of Age story
for a young Messiah that is realized
only because it is counterbalanced by
ch's role in the story she is as
important to part two as Paul is as
star's tragic fall to Blind religion is
I don't know how or why but watching two
people simply sandwalk together at night
made me feel things I can't fully
articulate even in the script it's a
feeling I think we've all felt at some
point when thinking of far away places
or people we love it's one of those you
know it when you feel it moments that
you get in life and sometimes you get it
in cinema and all of the moments in this
movie where I could have felt it the two
times I did were during this early scene
and right after Paul ascends to the
throne and watches chny leave I love
that it came from these two moments I
love how part two plays with the
audience's depth how her axis as
Spectators is pulled in and out of the
emotional conflicts and politics and
World building in such short time that's
where the visual storytelling really
kicks in where it marries the Grandeur
of the Mac with the gravity of the micro
vnu has always been great at that he's
always found a way to show the distance
with his characters that brings the
audience along as their own camera but
if you don't find that shade of
Storytelling particularly enticing then
this experience will largely be lost on
you and that's okay because this is very
much a different experience in that it's
meant to be an experience less of a
deconstruction more of a realization
it's not just a big Technical and
directorial showcase it is a Showcase of
all the best forms of filmm thinking and
there are so many showcases here to
enjoy speaking of all of gaty prime as
an example it goes down the line from
intense to execution but the hearken and
home world is a leech of Hope with the
architecture and weapons to back it it
reminded me a bit of new fxia shout out
to five or six people who might
understand that like ticks that corrupt
everything they touch in an aesthetic
that is as cold and draining as they
come I mean it literally drains the
color from your skin and lulls you into
this droning coma it's awesome fade
rotha is an engaging antagonist who
literally pulls no punches and elevates
the combat moments of this story as I've
always said violence should just be used
to elevate a story's narrative by
bringing out the little things in the
characters and we get that I love how
often the dialogue in this movie is
turned off and we get a chance just to
Simply live in the moment the Collision
of sound design and scenery together
gives us this spectacle the rawest form
of Cinema you can make the language of
film is cinematography and if you
command it well you can hit layers in
The Human Experience that are as poetic
as any big monologue could ever achieve
it also helps when this film is backed
by some of the most impressive sound
design and science fiction something
again denv has always had a talent for
the buzz of ornithopters the thunderous
Landing of Harkin and ships the chirping
of fan chatter and the quaint drafts of
wind along the Sands this movie is a
booming ocean of sensory overload that
kicks everything into another
Stratosphere how rare it is to walk away
from a movie knowing that every part of
its construction changed me somehow
where the experience of watching it to
become what it is along its emotional
thematic narrative and Technical
Spectrum has as much kineticism as the
story itself it is such an elevation of
quality in every possible way compared
to part one that it feels like you're
rediscovering this entire world for the
first time this is the Pinnacle of
Science Fiction storytelling visuals and
presence unmasked in its entirety this
is a film worth celebrating because yes
it is absolutely one of the greatest
films ever made on a technical
achievement and Visionary achievement
alone
as a kid it was the original trilogy and
prequel trilogy as an adult it will be
the Dune Trilogy a quintessential
science fiction experience a story about
tragedy and the culmination of a centuy
worth of work in one field all in around
3 hours it is Deni vn's greatest
accomplishment Greg Frasier's greatest
resume piece and H Zimmer's greatest
score since Interstellar I know a lot of
times I can succumb to the experience of
a film and thus my ramblings become
ramblings but sometimes having nothing
left to say is exactly what I want to
happen Dune part 2 is a masterpiece and
I am grateful to experience it in my
lifetime I love this film and that's all
I have to say and as always thanks for
[Music]
watching